Continuing the question from Sofia Nguyen: Dear teacher, the
three repentance essays on the karma of killing that you
taught everyone are
incredibly meaningful and beneficial. I would like to ask for your
further guidance. I often suffer from bloating,
loss of appetite, and inability to gain weight. I have
tried many medications but remain thin. I
was advised to take laxatives
twice a year, and I have taken refuge in the Three Jewels and
vowed to observe the precept of not killing. I would like your
guidance on this matter so that I and
everyone else can understand and practice the Dharma correctly. Thank you
for your merit. Respectfully, to the congregation, we are lay people, so we cannot practice the Dharma without doing 100% good deeds. That is, we cannot do 100% good deeds because we still have to cook, shop, and work.
Therefore, we cannot
completely avoid killing, but we can avoid
killing large animals.
You see, we still get
sick and need treatment. Do
bacteria die? If they
die, then we create merit for
those small things.  It can be easily overlooked.
Well, now you
have to choose between your health and
supporting your husband, children, and family, and doing good deeds.
You'll have to sacrifice a few worms, right?
Then, you'll have to accept the karmic consequences,
but it's still light compared to the
things we need to do, as you all see, right? That is,
there are some things, but not
killing humans, okay? We should let go of large animals. And what
about taking
deworming medicine? If you're sick and don't take it, you ca
n't refuse. If you have worms in your stomach, you can't refuse.
If the illness is serious and requires
that, then you have to accept it, you
know you'll have to suffer the karmic consequences, right?
But now, because of
that, the karmic consequences are even lighter
than the burden you bear,
not letting anyone else suffer, like your husband and children,
right? Otherwise, if
it eats and kills you,
how many people around you will suffer? And
you can't just ignore it, can you?
Then, in Buddhism,
there's a story about two monks...
So, this person saw that the
water contained germs, so they were determined to
die of thirst. Two people went to
find Buddha and met him. Another person
said that they had to drink water before they could meet
Buddha, so that person would meet
Buddha first. That means this person was pure and
did not kill, so they would have a
better precept. But
can we Buddhists change like
that? There are two ways.
One is to change like that, but
this body must be destroyed, but there must be no suffering,
only one thing left: practice
for liberation. Remember, only
practice for liberation,
then we can do that. If we
are still using the method of creating, we
must create small things and abandon creating. We should
only create big evil things. So in
this lesson, if
your life still requires serving too many
people and you cannot leave that behind and go away, meaning
you can die alone, then you must
do small evil things and do
big good things. Strive to study the
Buddha's teachings. And when you have...  When you go to
the hospital, you actually just take a
pill, even if it's made from leaves,
but to kill bacteria, it still has to
be something that destroys life. Even if the medicine is made from leaves, is it to
kill bacteria or viruses? It's
not about killing. So, if you do
a lot of good deeds, that will pass.
For example, our monks
go begging for alms, why do they attain Arhatship? Because
their minds are pure, so even if they
sleep in the forest, or
die, they still receive blessings. Do you understand?
Otherwise,
if bacteria were considered a
great sin in this world, how could anyone become a saint or a
Buddha? Right? A
direct question from Lich Thao Le: "
Sister, I want to ask you, my family has been
losing money in livestock farming for the past few years, and my
husband and I are constantly sick.
Is my family facing
any karmic obstacles?" My dear friend, regarding
the karmic connection of
engaging in livestock farming and killing animals,
if those people in their previous lives
created a lot of good karma...  The reason
this profession is still thriving is because of the good
karma I sowed in my previous life. My husband is
now reaping the rewards, but the
karma I'm sowing hasn't yet taken root.
But when my family runs out of good
karma, and I start following
that karma, engaging in evil deeds, I ca
n't escape. That means I
'll suffer losses and get sick. It's
best to practice
Buddhism. If I can't give it up, if I can't find
a profession that forces me to live
in a rural area without
farming, I can't make a living. That
is, the karmic consequences bring
me such binding conditions. So
I start doing good deeds, raising animals
like this, but I also limit killing, I
limit it, and I
know how to do good deeds and cultivate a
kind heart in my interactions with all
situations, with people, with animals, with everything, so that
I can gradually transform myself. It's like
starting from darkness and moving towards light. I can't
immediately abandon this farming profession. My whole
family, my husband, my children, and my rural home—
I can't do anything else.  There is no
profession that doesn't require leaving one's homeland.
So, I was going from darkness
to darkness. Now that I've encountered Buddhism,
I'm going from darkness to light. That means I still have to
do the same work, but I'm starting to create
good karma and beginning to pray for the
opportunity to meet someone who can help me
change professions, or for my children to
grow up and not
do this job, and for them to follow
their own karmic connections and escape
this profession. That means my heart is directed
towards goodness and I'm doing things to dedicate the
fruits of my good deeds so that they will soon bear fruit.
[Music]
K